# n-body-simulation
This repository contains the classes for a n-body gravitational simulation (newtonian) created with Python.

The files contained are the following:

'Particle.py', a file containing the class called 'Particle', where the properties of the objects of this simulation (the planets) are defined.

'solarsystem.py', a file containing the class called 'solarsystem', where the methods for other properties, like the total momentum or 
potential energy of the system, are defined.

'solarsystemtest.py', a file containing the initial conditions of the planets; the loop that updates them
and saves the updated information on a file called 'solarsystemanalysis.npy' is defined here.

'Analysis.py', a file opens a file called 'solarsystemanalysis.npy' and appends the data in arrays that are 
then plotted and visualized.

'Report.pdf', a full description of the code and its purpose.

All these files have been commented as a guidance through the code.

To Run the program:

1) Define the initial position, velocity and acceleration of each planet in 'solarsystemtest.py', along with the size of each step and number of iterations for the Euler-Cromer algorithm. To input meaningful initial conditions, you can use the information from the ephemerides generated by [NASA JPL's Horizon System](https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/horizons/#cmd)

The file 'solarsystemanalysis.npy' storing the planets data is automatically created: you need to either redirect it in the same folder where the files given here reside, or define its location using the 'os.path' Python module.

Run it.

2) On 'Analysis.py', select the properties (trajectories of the planets or other Solar System properties) to plot and visualise them.

Run it.
